Hello everyone and welcome to solution for a problem.
Question number eight.
So as a quick review of this question it was that if you're given a biased coin with some probability
greater than 0.5 for heads how could you simulate a fair coin given just one biased coin.
So in more general words simulate a fair coin given only access to a biased coin.
Now it's a little bit tricky to actually solve this but it's actually a really simple solution.
You just have to figure out the trick to it.
So Von Neumann which is a linked in the guide notes for this particular lecture actually gives a really
simple solution to this problem and the solution is just to flip the coin twice and then based on those
results you end up deciding how you represent things.
So if you have a biased coin you end up flipping it twice.
And if it comes up heads followed by tails then you call that outcome head if it comes tails followed
by heads then you call that outcome tail so otherwise if you have two heads or tails in a row you in
the repeating that process and you throw away that result.
So the way we're able to actually use that to simulate a fair coin is because throughout this we're
assuming that the flips are in the pen.
So because these flips are in the pen that we're able to use this technique of having either heads followed
by tails is head or tails followed by heads as tails and then we can just throw away these either two
heads in a row or two tails in a row and keep repeating this process and this will actually end up simulating
a fair coin.
And keep in mind this method actually works regardless of the actual bias.
As long as the bias is in between 0 and 1 and not exactly 0 or 1 which is basically impossible on a
physical coin.
So that's the trick to it.
You end up flipping it twice and then checking if you get heads or tails tails or heads and then you
throw away two heads or tails in a row because that's basically where your bias is being held.
So you're treating it as two independent flips.
So that way you can basically make a biased coin into a fair coin.
And if you want the full mathematical derivation.
Go ahead and check that Von Neumann link in the notes.
There's also a simpler link that actually shows this programmatically and proves that it works.
So check out the links and the guy notes if you want more on this kind of simple solution because the
idea is fairly simple just two independent flips heads tails or tails heads.
All right.
Hope those useful to.
I'll see you at the next lecture.